PEP 768: Expand the security considerations section (#4173)
python/peps: peps/pep-0768.rst

    except Exception as e:
        print(f"Failed to execute code: {e}")

Configuration API
-----------------

To allow redistributors, system administrators, or users to disable this
mechanism, several methods will be provided to control the behavior of the
interpreter:

A new environment ``PYTHON_DISABLE_REMOTE_DEBUGGING`` environment variable will

> be provided to control the behaviour at runtime. If set to any value, the

Reviewer: Does the empty string count as a value?

Author: I would say yes. WDYT?

Reviewer: I'm ok either way, but I think the PEP should say "(including an empty string)" explicitly. There's a lot of people who don't realize that `unset FOO` and `FOO=` do different things...

> be provided to control the behaviour at runtime. If set to any value, the

Reviewer: We should clarify when this variable will be checked - is it at process startup, or is it when the eval breaker bit is checked, right before the code would be executed?

If it's checked at startup, we should expose the flag via the debug offsets, so that debuggers can check this and print out a useful error message explaining why they won't work, instead of believing that they have attached and then never having their script run.

> be provided to control the behaviour at runtime. If set to any value, the

Author: ```suggestion
be provided to control the behaviour at runtime. If set to any value (including an empty string), the
```

interpreter will ignore any attempts to attach a debugger using this mechanism.

This environment variable will be added together with a new ``-X disable-remote-debugging``
flag to the Python interpreter to allow users to disable this feature at runtime.

Additionally a new  ``--without-remote-debugging`` flag will be added to the
``configure`` script to allow redistributors to build Python without support for

> remote debugging if they so desire.

Reviewer: We should additionally expose a flag indicating that remote debugging is disabled via the debug offsets, so that debuggers can check this and print out a useful error message explaining why they won't work, instead of believing that they have attached and then never having their script run. That will provide much nicer end user experience. All 3 methods (env var, `-X`, and `--without-remote-debugging`) should set that flag.

> Additionally a new  ``--without-remote-debugging`` flag will be added to the
> ``configure`` script to allow redistributors to build Python without support for
> remote debugging if they so desire.

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally a new  ``--without-remote-debugging`` flag will be added to the
``configure`` script to allow redistributors to build Python without support for
remote debugging if they so desire.

A new flag indicating the status of remote debugging will be made available via the debug offsets so tools can query if a remote process has disabled the feature. This way, tools can offer a useful error message explaining why they won't work, instead of believing that they have attached and then never having their script run. T
```

    except Exception as e:
        print(f"Failed to execute code: {e}")

Configuration API
-----------------

To allow redistributors, system administrators, or users to disable this
mechanism, several methods will be provided to control the behavior of the
interpreter:

> A new environment ``PYTHON_DISABLE_REMOTE_DEBUGGING`` environment variable will

Reviewer: Spotted another typo:
```suggestion
A new ``PYTHON_DISABLE_REMOTE_DEBUGGING`` environment variable will
```

> A new environment ``PYTHON_DISABLE_REMOTE_DEBUGGING`` environment variable will

Reviewer 2: Depending on how you feel, I _slightly_ prefer `DISABLE_REMOTE_DEBUG` (and likewise for the other uses) over debugGING. Saves a few characters, and I always find ING-words to be weird feature names.

Probably just my own bias though. Might be an American intonation thing as well ("remote DEE-bug") - I mostly speak to Americans about debugging 😆

be provided to control the behaviour at runtime. If set to any value (including an empty string), the
interpreter will ignore any attempts to attach a debugger using this mechanism.

This environment variable will be added together with a new ``-X disable-remote-debugging``
flag to the Python interpreter to allow users to disable this feature at runtime.

Additionally a new  ``--without-remote-debugging`` flag will be added to the
``configure`` script to allow redistributors to build Python without support for
remote debugging if they so desire.

> A new flag indicating the status of remote debugging will be made available via the debug offsets so tools can query if a remote process has disabled the feature. This way, tools can offer a useful error message explaining why they won't work, instead of believing that they have attached and then never having their script run.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A new flag indicating the status of remote debugging will be made available via
the debug offsets so tools can query if a remote process has disabled the
feature. This way, tools can offer a useful error message explaining why they
won't work, instead of believing that they have attached and then never having
their script run.
```

> A new flag indicating the status of remote debugging will be made available via the debug offsets so tools can query if a remote process has disabled the feature. This way, tools can offer a useful error message explaining why they won't work, instead of believing that they have attached and then never having their script run. T

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new flag indicating the status of remote debugging will be made available via the debug offsets so tools can query if a remote process has disabled the feature. This way, tools can offer a useful error message explaining why they won't work, instead of believing that they have attached and then never having their script run.
```

execute arbitrary code on the machine (in order to create the file containing
the Python code to be executed).

> Furtermore, the execution of the code is done is gated by the interpreter's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, the execution of the code is gated by the interpreter's
```

> audit hooks, which can be used to monitor and control the execution of the code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
audit hooks, which can be used to monitor or prevent the execution of the code
```

execute arbitrary code on the machine (in order to create the file containing

> the Python code to be executed).

Reviewer 2: This file is no longer created.

Author: I suppose you wrote this before checking out the other PR but just to clarify: in the new model the debugger tool must write a file to be executed

By maintaining compatibility with existing security frameworks, this design
ensures that adopting the new interface requires no changes to established.

Security scenarios
------------------

* For an external attacker, the ability to write to arbitrary memory in a
  process is already a severe security issue. This interface does not introduce
  any new attack surface, as the attacker would already have the ability to
  execute arbitrary code in the process. This interface behaves in exactly
  the same way as existing debuggers, and does not introduce any new additional
  security risks.
* For an attacker who has gained arbitrary memory write access to a process but

>   not arbitrary code execution, this interface does not provide a way to escalate
>   to arbitrary code execution as long as the attacker has not gained control over
>   additional machine resources external to the program. 

Reviewer 2: A few too many negatives in here? I hope I've flipped them around correctly:

```suggestion
  not arbitrary code execution, this interface does not allow them to escalate.
  The ability to calculate and write to specific memory locations is required,
  which is not available without compromising other machine resources that
  are external to the Python process.
```

  
Additionally, the fact that the code to be executed is gated by the interpreter's
audit hooks means that the execution of the code can be monitored and controlled
by system administrators. This means that even if the attacker has compromised the
application **and the filesystem**, leveraging this interface for malicious
purposes provides a very risky proposition for an attacker, as they risk
exposing their actions to system administrators that could not only detect the

> attack but also take action to prevent it. Finally, is important to note that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
attack but also take action to prevent it.

Finally, is important to note that
```

Plus rewrapping... not doing all that in a PR comment, sorry 😆
